Paper bug fixes page (#214)
PaperMC/docs: docs/paper/admin/misc/paper-bug-fixes.md

## Vanilla Bug Fixes

Paper fixes many vanilla bugs that were not intended by Mojang. These bugs are patched to fix behaviour or prevent abuse and
instability on the server. Many of our fixes are configurable as we understand that some servers may want to keep the
vanilla behavior. You will find these configuration options in the [global configuration](/docs/paper/admin/reference/configuration/global-configuration.mdx)
and the [world configuration](/docs/paper/admin/reference/configuration/world-configuration.mdx).

## Duplication Bugs

Paper Patches TNT, Carpet, Rail and Gravity Block (Sand, Gravel etc) Duplication bugs. These bugs are not intended and 
are patched to prevent abuse.

Because TNT duping is considered a form of automated mining and not a resource dupe, we have provided an option to 
restore it. This, undesirably, also re-enables carpet and rail duping, which normally we would not provide a config for, 
but it's the same bug for those, so we have no choice. However, the config option is as follows:

```yaml
unsupported-settings:
  allow-piston-duplication: true
```

:::danger[Sand and Gravity Blocks]

> **We will not and will never support sand and gravity block duping**. This is a form of resource duping and is **not** allowed.

Reviewer: Is allowed the right word?
Since server owners can do what they want, including installing plugins to bring the dupe back

Author: Probably not

:::

## Block Breaking

We also fix the ability to break Bedrock and End Portal frames. We do also provide a config option to restore this
functionality, but it is not recommended:
```yaml
unsupported-settings:
  allow-permanent-block-break-exploits: true
```

## Afterword

> If your server lags, crashes or has any other undesirable consequences from enabling these flags, you will not get support from Paper.

Reviewer 2: The main reason iirc why these options are in the unsupported setting is not really the lag or enabling them, it is more that we do not promise these to keep working down the line.

If upstream fixes this accidentally, or even mojang, we are not going out of our way to re-implement these settings.
If enabling them absolutely crashes your server, it is probably still a good idea to let us know lol.

Author: Just copied this from Aikars Description. Have added another sentence now

---
slug: /misc/paper-bug-fixes
---

# Paper Bug Fixes

Paper fixes gameplay and mechanics inconsistencies. The most prevalent fixes being TNT Duplication and Bedrock Breaking.

## Vanilla Bug Fixes

> Paper fixes many vanilla bugs that were not intended by Mojang. These bugs are patched to fix behaviour or prevent abuse and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Paper fixes many vanilla bugs that were not intended by Mojang. These bugs are patched to fix behavior or prevent abuse and
```

instability on the server. Many of our fixes are configurable as we understand that some servers may want to keep the
vanilla behavior. You will find these configuration options in the [global configuration](/docs/paper/admin/reference/configuration/global-configuration.mdx)
and the [world configuration](/docs/paper/admin/reference/configuration/world-configuration.mdx).

## Duplication Bugs

> Paper Patches TNT, Carpet, Rail and Gravity Block (Sand, Gravel etc) Duplication bugs. These bugs are not intended and 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Paper Patches TNT, Carpet, Rail and Gravity Block (Sand, Gravel, etc.) Duplication bugs. These bugs are not intended and 
```

are patched to prevent abuse.

Because TNT duping is considered a form of automated mining and not a resource dupe, we have provided an option to 
restore it. This, undesirably, also re-enables carpet and rail duping, which normally we would not provide a config for, 
but it's the same bug for those, so we have no choice. However, the config option is as follows:

```yaml
unsupported-settings:
  allow-piston-duplication: true
```

:::danger[Sand and Gravity Blocks]

**We will not and will never support sand and gravity block duping**. This is a form of resource duping and is **not** supported by Paper.

:::

## Block Breaking

We also fix the ability to break Bedrock and End Portal frames. We do also provide a config option to restore this
functionality, but it is not recommended:
```yaml
unsupported-settings:
  allow-permanent-block-break-exploits: true
```

## Afterword

> If your server lags, crashes or has any other undesirable consequences from enabling these flags, you will not get support from Paper.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If your server lags, crashes or has any other undesirable consequences of enabling these flags, you will not get support from Paper.
```
`of` I think is the usual preposition.

Author: Is it? Doesn't sound right to me

> These settings are also not guaranteed to be supported into the future and may have their behaviour changed or removed at any time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These settings are also not guaranteed to be supported into the future and may have their behavior changed or removed at any time.
```

---
slug: /misc/paper-bug-fixes
---

# Paper Bug Fixes

> Paper fixes gameplay and mechanics inconsistencies. The most prevalent fixes being TNT Duplication and Bedrock Breaking.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Paper fixes gameplay and mechanic inconsistencies. The most prevalent fixes are to TNT duplication and bedrock breaking.
```

## Vanilla Bug Fixes

Paper fixes many vanilla bugs that were not intended by Mojang. These bugs are patched to fix behavior or prevent abuse and

> instability on the server. Many of our fixes are configurable as we understand that some servers may want to keep the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
instability on the server. Many of our fixes are configurable, as we understand that some servers may want to keep the
```

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure we want to use the word `Many` here to describe the number of configurable fixes. I would say most aren't configurable. I think `Some` is better.

vanilla behavior. You will find these configuration options in the [global configuration](/docs/paper/admin/reference/configuration/global-configuration.mdx)
and the [world configuration](/docs/paper/admin/reference/configuration/world-configuration.mdx).

### What is intended behavior vs a bug?

When an issue is reported to us, we check Mojang's issue tracker. If the problem has been reported there, then we
check to see if it:

1) Has been confirmed as a bug
2) Has an assigned priority to it

> If it meets these two criteria then we will accept changes to fix the bug as it can take a long time for Mojang to fix 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If it meets these two criteria, then we will accept changes to fix the bug, as it can take a long time for Mojang to fix 
```

> them (Sometimes years). If an issue gets declined by Mojang, we normally do not "fix" it as it is intended behaviour.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
them (sometimes years). If an issue gets declined by Mojang, we normally do not "fix" it as it is intended behaviour.
```

> them (Sometimes years). If an issue gets declined by Mojang, we normally do not "fix" it as it is intended behaviour.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
them (Sometimes years). If an issue gets declined by Mojang, we normally do not "fix" it, as it is intended behaviour.
```

## Duplication Bugs

> Paper Patches TNT, Carpet, Rail and Gravity Block (Sand, Gravel, etc.) Duplication bugs. These bugs are not intended and 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Paper patches TNT, carpet, rail and gravity block (sand, gravel, etc.) duplication bugs. These bugs are not intended and 
```

are patched to prevent abuse.

Because TNT duping is considered a form of automated mining and not a resource dupe, we have provided an option to 
restore it. This, undesirably, also re-enables carpet and rail duping, which normally we would not provide a config for, 
but it's the same bug for those, so we have no choice. However, the config option is as follows:

```yaml
unsupported-settings:
  allow-piston-duplication: true
```

:::danger[Sand and Gravity Blocks]

**We will not and will never support sand and gravity block duping**. This is a form of resource duping and is **not** supported by Paper.

:::

## Block Breaking

> We also fix the ability to break Bedrock and End Portal frames. We do also provide a config option to restore this

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We also fix the ability to break bedrock and end portal frames. We do also provide a config option to restore this
```

Reviewer 3: It's possible these are proper nouns as the name of blocks in game so capitalization would be appropriate.

functionality, but it is not recommended:
```yaml
unsupported-settings:
  allow-permanent-block-break-exploits: true
```

## Afterword

> We will not support you if you have issues whilst these settings are enabled. They can and might cause unintended side effects.
> These settings are also not guaranteed to be supported into the future and may have their behavior changed or removed at any time.
> 
> For reasoning behind no configuration options for sand (and MANY other duplication bugs), see: 
> [#3724](https://github.com/PaperMC/Paper/issues/3724)
> 
> Please do not create any further discussion on config options for sand duping. The decision is final.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We will not support you if you have issues whilst these settings are enabled, as they can cause unintended side effects.
These settings are also not guaranteed to be supported in the future and may have their behavior changed or removed at any time.

For reasoning behind not having configuration options for sand (and MANY other) duplication bugs, see: 
[#3724](https://github.com/PaperMC/Paper/issues/3724)

Please do not create any further discussion on config options for sand duping. The decision is final.
```
